Before you get started with Lesson 1, I thought it would be useful to explain some of the site and the quirks that go with making a self-guided e-learning system.

The site does not yet have all the lessons from the books in it, I launched it with the first three lessons covered and am working on the rest as I go, so I can begin to collect feedback earlier in the process where changing things isn't so painful. The goal is to cover the first 50 lessons (the Shokyu) and then, if there's interest, covering the 25 lessons in the older intermediate books (the Chukyu).

You should aim for getting through a lesson in a week to ten days. This will put you at a high N4, low N3 in about a year. The biggest time sink is an Anki deck, which there's a quite good one available [here](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/340141241). The further you get into the deck, the more past cards you'll have to deal with, so know your limits, both time and patience.

For each lesson there will be a mix of textbook sections, textbook and workbook exercises, articles, grammar notes, and kanji worksheets. A textbook section is simply an ungraded/unscored thing you should practice on, usually speaking. Exercises from both the textbook and workbook can be attempted here on Ganbatte, where your grades will be tracked as you go. This is just for your own information so you can see what you still need to work on. After every few lessons there will be a test. These are also graded and tracked for you.

I want to reiterate that you can't really use this website without owning the books. There will be page references and explanations for what to do, but without the book for reference, you will not be able to answer the questions.

In many situations the questions are ones that expect answers in complete sentence form. Here's a quirk like I mentioned. Your answer needs to be very precisely what I'm expecting. When the system is grading your work, it's comparing what you wrote to a small list of possible accepted answers. If it's not one of those, it will be marked incorrect, even if the meaning of the sentence was identical. In practice, this means using your katakana and kanji whenever appropriate, and ending with a Japanese period. It also means not to work ahead of the book. For example, if I asked you how to say 'I am American', and the book up to this point has taught you that '私' means 'I', but you know that '僕' can *also* mean 'I', you should still stick with only using '私'. It would be a crazy amount of work to try to cover every possible sentence that effectively means the same thing, or I'd have to do something expensive and unpredictable like asking an AI to grade you, which would mean charging a fee to use the site. You can think of it like having a teacher that also doesn't know a ton of Japanese, and is just going by what the book says, so you'd better give the exact answer they're expecting. The grades that the system gives you don't really mean anything to anyone but yourself, so if you feel like the system screwed you on an answer, you can probably consider yourself correct and mentally adjust your score upward.

This system is open-source and I'm hoping I can build a community of contributors that will help not just with that problem, but many others like providing useful example sentences, notes, and articles. If you want to contribute, you can use the GitHub or Discord links at the bottom of each page to get started.